# Spreadsheet Guide for CASPIANA
Websites need to have a spreadsheet version in order to be migrated or uploaded quickly to platforms. I created a spreadsheet version (csv) of CASPIANA so that all information can be uploaded into the website's backend, which is what allows entries to be found through the search bar. In order to create this version I used R to organize the data, but now that it is in the correct format you shouldn't have to edit any further. If you do, however, I would recommend R for general data manipulation. I am not  including the actual csv file for CASPIANA in this repository. You can find that it the [Google Drive](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NHbX0fnF3CA1h0DvPacjhI9kU9f8bhYX/edit#gid=1506660950) instead. Note that the spreadsheat version is saved as an excel document in Google. Download it and save it as a csv before you import it into Omeka.

The spreadsheet currently consists of 9 columns: "Dublin Core: Title", "Dublin Core: Description", "Dublin Core: Date", "Dublin Core: Creator", "Dublin Core: Language", "tags", "Item Type Metadata: Local URL", "URL", and "Embedded Links". 

The first 7 columns are used to import the spreadsheet into Omeka using the CSV Plugin. See the [Omeka Guide](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/tree/main/Omeka%20Website%20Guide/Omeka%20Guide) Plugin Section for details on that process. These columns are generally self-explanatory, but "tags" and "Item Type Metadata: Local URL" may need further explanation. Omeka organizes data on the backend with tags and uses commas to separate tags within a single column. The "tags" column follows a general pattern: region, country, subject, sub-category. "Item Type Metadata: Local URL" has been written in html format so that when you import the spreadsheet and toggle on html duirng that process, all links will automatically be imported as active links. 

The last two columns (URL and Embedded) links are not used during the CSV import stage, but are actually useful for pasting in information into Omeka's frontend. Most information in CASPIANA only includes a title and url, but we chose to display that information as a title that has the link embedded. The "Embedded Links" column has formatting that automatically pastes the title of each row and then imbeds its URL. You can then copy that whole column to quickly paste in titles. If you are workign with a single source, it is probably faster to do this via the Google Drive. If you have to do several hundred or redo an entire section, copying the whole column is easier. If you do this though, it is a little tricky to get excel to lose its table formating. The trick is to copy the entire column and then paste into a word doc. Then copy the information from that word doc and paste into a second word document. Then you will have every title in Caspiana embedded with urls that you can quickly copy/paste into Omeka. 



