# CASPIANA Homepage Map
The map on the homepage was somewhat complicated to create. The base version of the map was created in ArcGIS Pro and is included here as "Caspiana_Map_ArcGIS.pdf". Then a second version was created in Adobe Illustrator to include some basic coloring and country labels. Three versions (ai, jpg, and pdf) of that stage of the map are included here, all labelled "Caspiana_Map_ArcGIS-Illustrator". Finally, our graphics designer created the last version with a color scheme we all agreed on, which is listed here as "Caspiana_Final_Version.jpg". 

To make the map interactive I used https://www.image-map.net. In Image-map.net, you can input Caspiana's [map url](https://s3.amazonaws.com/atg-prod-oaas-files/caspiana/original/e47a33a49d4272de783795ac2935fac8.jpg) from Omeka and then create shapefiles for each country by tracing their borders with polygons. Input each country's Omeka page URL and then click on "Show Me the Code" when all shapefiles are complete and URLs inputted. Copy that code and insert it into the homepage's Html editor. See the [Html section](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/tree/main/Omeka%20Website%20Guide/CSS%20and%20Html%20Guide) of this repo to understand that specific formatting. 

Quick note on inputting images/maps into Omeka. In order to insert images into Caspiana or to use Image-map, you need an image's URL. When you upload an image into Omeka as an item, it receives a URL. Simply click on the image's item on the admin side of Omeka, click on the image again, then click on it for a third time, and then you should see the image with a black background. Once you see the background, you can copy that window's URL. 
