# Recovery Guide for CASPIANA
If you have somehow lost Caspiana's spreadsheet version altogether, you can recover it using the CSV Export Format plugin. This plugin simply adds an export function that can be found at the bottom of the Items page in Omeka (from the admin side). Specifically, you can find the csv export button listed among other export options following the "Output Formats: " text at the bottom of the page. By clicking on "csv" you can download all items shown on the page and export them as a csv file. I have set the number of items visible to admins to 20, but in order to export all items in Caspiana you will need to see all items on one page. To do this, click on the "Appearance" tab and then click on "Settings". Under "Results Per Page (admin)" set the number of items visible to the number of items in Caspiana. Then return to the Items page and click on the csv button at the bottom of the screen to export all items. 

The csv export will likely be very messy, and I recommend using a package like R to clean the data. I have included some code in an R Markdown document that takes the exported csv file and organizes in a similar manner to the current spreadsheet version. If you need to use this code and are unsure how to copy/paste it into your own R project, feel free to simply download the entire Github repository, take the exported csv file (named "export") and place it in this "Recovery Guide" file in your local directory. After doing this, you can just run my code to export an excel version of the data that is close to the current version. 
