# Omeka Guide
In our website we use a few specific features to build the overall site. We use exhibits, simple pages, items, the default homepage, tags, and plugins. The overall appearance of any Omeka site is decided by its Theme. We use the "DH @ Harvard" theme for our website, although I have heavily customized it. 

# Exhibits & Simple Pages
- We use Exhibit pages for most of the website. There are Exhibit pages for Media, Governance, Statistics, Academic Resources, and all eight countries. Each Exhibit page has subpages, and each page can have separate "blocks" or sections of text. The way Caspiana is built, each Subject Exhibit Page is divided into either country subpages or thematic subpages. Again, we use Text Blocks for all subpages where you paste in the descriptions, titles, and links from the Google Drive or the spreadsheet version. In general, if your item has a description, you should paste in from the Google Drive. If your item is just a title with a URL, then you should use the "Embedded Links" column from the spreadsheet (although you may want to copy/paste that column into a word doc and copy/paste again from that doc to second doc to lose the excel formatting). Each block also has an html editor, which you use to insert images or to insert breaks. See the [Html Guide](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/tree/main/Omeka%20Website%20Guide/CSS%20and%20Html%20Guide) for details. 

- Simple pages are a little different from Exhibit pages and we use them to build the "Country List", "Contribution" and "About" pages. These are just pages that have a text box with Html editing options. Again, see the [Html Guide](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/tree/main/Omeka%20Website%20Guide/CSS%20and%20Html%20Guide) for details on formatting for those pages.  

# Items
We also input all our information as "Items" within Omeka. This is what allows people to use the search bar to find information. In order to create Items in Omeka, you can either do it manually by inputting information directly into Omeka or by using the CSV Import Plugin. I would recommend the latter and have included a small guide to using that plugin under the Plugins section of this page. Having our information recorded within the Blocks as text and also as Items on the backend, helps us keep multiple versions of our information. Also, in order to insert any images into the website, you need to have those images included as items and you need to use html. To learn more about that process, see the [Html Guide](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/blob/main/Omeka%20Website%20Guide/CSS%20and%20Html%20Guide/Html%20Code.docx).

# Homepage
The Homepage can be edited from the "Appearance" tab when you click on "Configure Theme". In this page, you can toggle the entire website's color scheme, its logo image, header image, footer, color scheme, and the homepage's formatting itself. The Logo and Header images are included in this repository in the Images folder. The color scheme for Caspiana can be toggled and I will include the hex code for the main colors here. Primary Branding (#133E6B), Secondary Branding (#7a101f), Header Text (#fafcfc), Background (#ffffff), Headings (#133E6B), Text (#333333), and Links (#133E6B). For the footer's and homepage's formatting please see the [Html Guide](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/tree/main/Omeka%20Website%20Guide/CSS%20and%20Html%20Guide). 

# Tags
Tags are useful for organizing the website and allowing people to search by specific categories. Tags can be added when adding Items or they can be added directly in the "Tags" page of Omeka. In general, we use a variety of tags to organize the website, including country, subject, sub-category, etc. Every piece of information in Caspiana has tags in Omeka, but tags are also included in the spreadsheet version.  

# Plugins
There are a variety of plugins available for Omeka to customize our site. All plugins can be installed, activated, or deactivated by clicking on the "Plugins" tab at the top of the admin page in Omeka. We used the following plugins: CSS Editor, CSV Export Format, Exhibit Builder, Harvard Key, Hide Elements, Simple Pages, and CSV Import. 

- The CSS Editor plugin is the most complicated of the plugins we use. Please see the [CSS and Html Guide](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/tree/main/Omeka%20Website%20Guide/CSS%20and%20Html%20Guide) for more information. 

- The CSV Export Format plugin can be used to export all items from Caspiana's Omeka version as a csv file. See the [Recovery Guide](https://github.com/CianStryker/Caspiana_Guide/tree/main/Maintenance%20Guide/Recovery%20Guide) for more details. 

- The Exhibit Builder and Simple Pages plugins essentially allow you to use Exhibits and Simple Pages. Harvard Key allows Harvard students to sign in as admins using their Harvard credentials. And Hide Elements is useful for simplifying what information is available on item pages. 

- The CSV Import plugin is very important because that is how you upload the spreadsheet version of CASPIANA into Omeka. When you want to input the spreadsheet version, first make sure it is saved as a csv file. Note that the spreadsheet version is saved as an excel document in the Google Drive, so you have to download it and save it as a csv before you import it into Omeka. Once you have done this, open the CSV Import tab in Omeka and simply choose the csv version of Caspiana on your computer. Check the "Automap Column Names to Elements" box and make sure under "Select Item Type" you select website. Click on "Make All Items Public?" to simplify things as well. Ignore everything else and hit next. After hitting next, you should be on the "Step 2: Map Columns to Elements, Tags, or Files" page. The only rows that are important are the rows that are named "Dublin Core: ", "tags" row, or "Item Type Metadata:Local URL" row. You can ignore "URL" and "Embedded Links". For the rows you do care about though, make sure that the "Map to Element" column in Omeka matches each identity, i.e. the "Dublin Core: Title" should match the element "Title". Make sure you click on "Use HTML?" for each row as well (not URL or Embedded Links since we do not care about those in Omeka). Also make sure you click on "Tags?" for the tags row. Then you can simply hit "Import CSV File" and the spreadsheet version of Caspiana will be inputted into Omeka.

